# CSHL_Mice_Database
Imported from the meyer lab repository from CSHL.

This website was one of my first projects and as such comes with a story:

The average gestation period for Mus Musculus is between 19 and 21 days. This means that a single mouse can breed up to 14 pups a year – mice are breeding machines. During my internship at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, our transgenic mouse population surged in the span of a few months. Eventually, the population faced a Malthusian crisis, and we were forced to euthanize those that we couldn’t house. It was terrible that these mice were dying for naught and weren’t even being used for experimentation. In addition, costs to sustain the ever-growing mouse population amassed and were eating through the research group’s funds. Growing up in a household influenced by Jain values such as ahimsa and vegetarianism, I knew that I must find a solution to avert the excess euthanization of these mice.
	At first, I thought that a simple spreadsheet to organize our mice would be sufficient to track and regulate the research group’s mouse population. However, after a few weeks, the problem persisted, and we needed a more robust solution. Then, it hit me, what if we had a way for other research groups to use our extra mice for their experiments while also being able to share their own? Perhaps I can make an application that stores basic information about the mice, like age and genotyping, and presents that information in a catalog. A common system that allowed multiple research groups to share and receive extra mice would be the ideal solution. But such a system would demand more complex features like security and restrictions. Other features, like a more intuitive user interface, would also be required to improve the usability. I set out immediately to draft a plan that would adequately incorporate the necessary features.
As I looked through more and more open source systems on the internet, I realized that I would have to create an internal system that would be tailored to my research group’s needs. Based on my previous programming experiences, such as conducting bioinformatic analysis and taking computer science classes, I conceptualized a centralized repository with a role-based controlled access system. On the precipice of my project, I realized that I still needed a way to host my system so that everyone could access it. I reached out to those who were in charge of the laboratory’s internal intranet and asked if they could host a Python-based user interface with a native database. After I received the go-ahead from the laboratory administration, I got started immediately!
Sleepless nights fueled by gallons of coffee drove every step of the development process, and for the first few weeks, I had made significant headway. But as I began to incorporate account-based restrictions into the system, I was stumped. I spent days going over my notes, scouring GitHub repositories, and consulting StackExchange forums to come across a new way to tackle the task at hand. Just as I was beginning to lose hope, I came across something unexpected while discussing the project with some peers. Eureka! I could use an already existing Python package Django to manage the SQL aspect of my database.
Pursuing my lead, I embarked on the daunting task of incorporating the package Django. Tirelessly, I searched through the haystack of journals, forums, and GitHub pages looking for a needle that would guide me. Through each of the countless issues that arose, I pushed through by troubleshooting, conducting tests, and collaborating with my peers. After countless iterations and prototypes, the site finally worked.
